[Music]
order first up is roll call and seating
of
alets I've got an cre present Scott pan
present and myself present as the
regular
members and so Kevin we'll seat you and
we'll seat you and
Marie sounds good thank you
next up is additions or changes to the
agenda and I would like to
move new business item 6A which is the
Connecticut Meditation
Center
up above the old
business so that uh these folks don't
have to sit around waiting for their
turn and then they can go do other stuff
when they get done
and then I would also like to remove
item five Charlie the gravel bit
update um essentially there's
not not very much to report on that and
uh it
would require us to go to Executive
session because there is a lawsuit
pending and so
uh since I don't have much to report I
don't want to go to executive session
and we will just pass on that tonight
hey
Patrick
um so at this
point I would like to make a motion to
move 6A before item five and remove item
five
charl second okay thank you an any other
discussion on the changes to the agenda
or any other changes to the agenda
anybody wants to
make okay uh hearing
none I'll call for a vote to approve the
motion an hi Scott hi an Marie I Kevin
I and I vote I as well that motion
passes by z
z uh since Patrick is here and and I did
not put on my notes who is last seated
as an alternate I think it's your turn
Kevin but I don't know am re do you have
a a sense were you seated
recently not that I recall
no I'm fine either way okay Kevin do you
remember the last time you were seated
honestly not without going back and
looking at the minutes uh so which how
it doesn't matter to me however you want
to put it down I'm going to uh I'm going
to seat in Marie then she was the first
one in
good Evin will put you off to the side
and let Patrick take his seat
there okay um next item up on the agenda
Leanne Hutchinson is joining
us maybe maybe I spoke too fast and
Marie think we'll put uh lean are you
there yes yes okay yep I had seated
anarie for you we're going to uh set you
in there so
uh so we have all five of our regular
members is the voting members
tonight
anybody and it's only you guys I don't
think you have any public comment on any
anything else before we get to your item
no okay very good we're going to move on
to item 6A the proposed development at
131 Route
6 and I'll turn it over to
you yeah so
uh today we have repres Meditation
Center uh it's a nonprofit organization
where we are providing uh the really I
mean this uh teachings and meditation
practices so Comm Community around us
you can just speak a little louder
please we picture we Pi you up on the
reporting all right so uh it's a it's a
nonprofit organization where we are
providing Buddhist teaching and
meditation practices to the community
including again we have conducting uh
the cultural classes of Sri Lankan
Community who lives in Conneticut right
so he started this uh in
2013 right and uh but there we haven't
had a proper place to do that but we
rented places based on the department
and continue until 2021 in 2021 we found
this property at Andor and we purchased
so we purchase this
property I mean it's not an easy path
for us because we had to collect a lot
of money throughout for the p i mean
from 2013 to
2021 and finally we found that and we
got we told it's the best place for us
to uh build this proper build this
property and serve the community in a
better way right so considering all
these facts we bought this property and
then uh we were trying I mean we trying
to see how we can utilize in a better
way to have
up the the operations right so there uh
we I mean we have like I mean if I
consider the the the event what we are
doing like we have regular prayer
meetings kind of sessions so usually we
be having around
40 to 50 people so the current facility
is okay for us to continue all those
things on top of that every year we'll
be having we usually having uh big event
usually those are happening in uh late
spring and the Summer where we have a
big uh the back care right so we should
be able to accommodate all of the
attendance attendance on facilities and
that we have a uh a
tent the temple tent where we doing all
those things there right now
uh I said that the the the biggest
challenge we are facing the
accommodation for trees right now during
the
summer they they they can stay in the
big old building because it's a pretty
old building which which was built in
1700 right and and there I mean you know
it it's
uh insulations are not that good there
are holes around and it needs a better
uh heating system the water lines are I
mean it doesn't work I mean it's it's
going to froze during the winter we have
a lot of problem right so there but
still we manage all those things with
very hardships but it's not I mean
considering all those things and
again so I mean I know the priest they
dedicated their life to do better things
for others but still they don't need to
suffer that that much of practical for
us because investing more money to uh
develop that old
building when we really consider we
talked to several contractors and looked
at options and putting more money into
that building is not worth the the the
effort and the cost at the end of the
day because the foundation itself is not
that good and so we don't know in order
to make it safe for somebody to live
there it's a significant cost and still
we are not guaranteed that it'll stay
safe and especially during the winter to
make it insulated and he heater with the
proper facilities it's hard to do it
with with that old building so
unfortunately we didn't know about the
situation of the building when we
purchase the property but now that we
have purchased it we have it so now we
are looking at Alternatives that's why
we repair the barn to see whether we can
use it as a temporary shelter but that
doesn't work either lot of mice and uh
the again insulation is very poor so uh
the water freezes up and all the
problems so that's why we are looking at
alternatives for them because right now
he's lives in New York so coming from
New York to here is not a practical
solution for us either so we and then we
got another priest from Sri Lanka so now
we have here two but we need the place
for those two people
to be there and then that way we can
have regular meetings and uh prayers and
have children's uh uh sessions like
classes and we can we can like work with
the community local community on a
regular basis when you operating from
New York it's it's very hard to do and
it's costly back and forth
travel uh it's not practical so
that's why we are looking for
an anything else for us so there our
option where we we decide we we wanted
to check the the the possibilities of
setting up a manufactured house there in
that property right so it's going to be
a uh three bedroom manufactured house uh
which is
about, 200 S feet I mean it's less than
1,172
so now we would we want I mean so there
on there for that we we we created a
site plan I mean I just a high level
site plan to show you uh to see how we
is
so and we wanted to know
how we can continue in this path and
uh enable our place to have affordable
for a better uh I another
copy place to live yeah this
is again it's a temporary solution
because we our ultimate goal is to
develop a bigger public building where
we can have the public functions as well
as
maybe then the priest can have some
accommodation within that permanent
building but that that's a longer term
plan okay so right now what we want to
do is that's why we looked at different
options can we develop part of that
public building right now but then again
it's it's too costly so because we have
to put the foundation for the whole
building and develop this when we do the
septic and the plumbing and everything
electrical fa then it has to be done for
the whole building so the infrastructure
cost is too high so that's why we
settled on this manufactured home that
way the initial cost is lower and the
infrastructure cost would be low as well
so we want to we are
seeking uh permission to go ahead with
that plan before we uh raise funds and
uh pay an advance to the
manufacturer uh we won't your opinion on
how how they work okay so your last
comment there like our opinion and so
this is a free application conference we
don't have an application yet we're just
here sharing information trying to get
some feedback from the commission on on
how it's going and that sort of thing
yeah Jim you had a chance to see this
site plan drawing it all I I have some
notes that I'd like to share at some
point okay that was a good background
okay um the Connecticut Meditation
Center purchased the property at 131 ro6
consisting of 7.4 acres of land along
with 3900 square square foot structure
built 1792 which is once White's tab
been used but it's been used for
residents for for quite some time based
on a recent photo it appears that there
have been up to three residential units
in in the building I say that because it
may have some some uh bearing on on what
lot theut moving forward and I say that
because there's there's three there's
three electrical boxes on the picture
that I have of three three meter seconds
property's own business the intended use
of the property as place of worship is
what what I'm referring to it as is
specifically listed is requiring a site
plan approval current owners been made
aware of this and have engaged an
engineer inter bual prare plans and I've
had a few conversations with with Andy
regarding
the regulatory
standards so they recently they recently
approached about placing a manufactured
home on the property for two months to
live in well the use of the existing
house falls under the the list of per
permitted
uses under the business zes it was in
fact because it was in existence prior
to 2003 which is what the regulations
State um having said that obviously a
new structure would not not beet that
criteria then question arose um or in my
mind anyway um as to whether a residence
placed on the property May constitute an
accessory use to place of worship and
that is assuming that such a use is
established by way of a site plan
approval I'm
referring this would be
similar to a rectory at a church which
something
that most of us are more familiar um so
Section 8 of the zoning regulation
states that all site plan approvals must
meet all the requirements of section 23
with the exception of a public hearing
and this would include architectural
design that's all I have for notes
okay so I try to make it clear that this
is just a
preliminary these folks that come to us
commission back when they first
purchased the property um get some
feedback
and there's you know there plans I think
have evolved since
then so I guess you know first and
foremost we need
to have tried to make it clear that we
need special sorry sa
plan sa plan
approval I kind of use the terms
interchanger I shouldn't
I guess I I have can I raise a concern
now that I
hearing the long-term use of the the
house um I mean what do you intend to do
that moving forward long term um if he
can because we we have approached like a
couple of Institutions including Yale
University because it's a historical
building we prefer to save it and see
whether we can uh develop it but as I
said before investing more money to
bring it to a residential property that
can be used year round is um right now
with our kind of financial situation
it's beyond us because uh that's why we
approach we see whether we can get some
state or federal grants uh or some kind
of funding with some expert help we
that's why we approach the a university
and their archit Ural and uh like
engineering departments just to get a
because we are biggest concern is about
the foundation of the property so
because it's a stone old stone
foundation and it has moved a little bit
so we that's why we can't use it for
public functions or anything so we don't
want to use it that way unless we get
some experts who know the uh who know
know the subject very well and give give
us advice and invest bringing enough
money to make it a safe uh sa building
for public so that's why we are moving
towards this tempor installation
yeah again uh I mean as of
now as we have spent a lot on that
property to keep the keep the structure
stable we have uh set up a lot of the
the reinforcement columns yeah we have
put metal columns underneath so that
just to support the existing structure
and added uh more plumbing and just that
looks like my house I have St foundation
with lots of those poles it up yeah we
have we have invested some money but
again we don't want to put in lot more
money with with real little little
benefit because
we can't when we have public functions
we don't want people to go in there
because we are not sure whether it's
safe or not we are just right now using
it more for storage and and uh because
we have we have this big tent that's why
we purchase the tent and and so it's
like semi-permanent the structure there
but we remove the roof and and store it
during the winter because we don't want
to we cannot use it during the winter
but most of the functions are during
spring and summer so we can manage but
we prefer our priest to live their year
round because people are visiting us
pretty much every weekend we have with
people who who want to visit us and
people who drive by on Route Six stop
and want to talk to the priests and
learn a little bit more but we we cannot
accommodate them because they are not
there especially during the winter
do any of the commission members have
any comments or questions on on what
we've seen
here
Leanne Kevin and
Marie I would say I don't really have
any comments right now I mean I listened
and I understand what they're looking to
do with the property uh you know I
understand that the Future Vision is not
100% developed yet um but I would I
would say I don't really have any
questions at this
time okay yeah thanks Kevin John you
have
anything no nothing for me I thought
that the summary was was
good just curious the this um projected
priest residence is this going to be a
permanent building then you're not
intending to
replace it with something else soon or
what uh not soon but eventually our plan
is to we have already uh discuss with
the town about the future plan longer
term plan because we want to build a
bigger building permanent building with
uh enough space to conduct public
functions and a prayers and uh with a
prayer hold and so that the problem is
that that's going to take few more years
because we have to do it slowly and uh
again with working with the town but
right now our immediate problem is that
we are unable to uh uh have
accommodations for the priest okay
priest then live in that new larger
building when you build that yeah okay
so then you wouldn't need this is this
on a like cement yeah Foundation or is
it a with a basement kind no no no we
have to put the flat because there are
some requirements from the manufacturer
and based on their requirements we are
going to put a concrete slab and then
put the plumbing and the setti for that
and then uh bring in and put the
manufactured home on top of that it's a
smaller but three bedroom because there
are some state requirements about the
dimensions of the manufactured house so
because of that that's why we went for a
we prefer to do a small am but then the
uh the the the state rules kind of so
that's why we thought with the if we can
use the affordable
housing kind of approach and then have
this uh residence as a I would say
shortterm measure but then again we can
use it in the long run although we are
planning to build a bigger building on
the property I think we should be able
to use it in the long run as well so is
that bigger building going to be an
addition onto this residence or is it a
completely separate building completely
separate building so is that point would
this building go away or no not right
now well I think our plan is to keep it
there and then use it as the residence
while we are building the bigger
building Y and then then also we can
since the those plans haven't uh kind of
finalized yet if we have have a
residence for the uh monks right now
with the manufactured home then we can
concentrate on building the public
building first right and then take an
addition if necessary if we feel that
the the manufactured home is not good
enough for the priest in the long run
then we can do an addition to the for
the public building with the with the
resident part okay and the reason I
asked that is for a lot in the buil
business zone now we wouldn't allow you
to build a single family
home because we want the business lots
to be used for business yeah yeah and
and so we've already got one single
family home although it's in horrible
condition and then we've got another one
and then we might have the priests or
the monks which is the proper term yeah
living in this new center which I saw a
picture online yeah very yeah yeah a
nice building
um but right now we wouldn't allow two
homes on one line yeah so we've got to
work our way through that a little bit
and and probably as an accessory
building we we can do that
but it makes me
concerned about the long-term viability
you know what what's going to happen 50
years from now I don't know but we've
got you we're in a condition where if it
weren't to be a temple anymore then
we've got a couple of homes on there now
we're into a situation where
um that's not in accordance with the
regulation so I would hope that we
yeah to make it for the long term
because this is for the I mean actually
the Sri Lankan community in Connecticut
is growing pretty fast already we have
about I would say little more than 100
families in the area and and it's
growing uh fast with the Ukon and um
other insurance companies and companies
in Hartford we are there are lot more
people and lot more doctors in the
hospitals here so the community is
growing and with especially with little
kids they want the cultural and language
and the religious U education for the
kids as well so that's that's why we we
are thinking about this property as the
longterm this we are doing this for the
future generation not for us I mean yeah
so if go ahead Eric so if if I interject
I want to throw one wild card in but
before I do that what I wanted to do is
do you guys have an architect you're
working with on this okay so the reason
why I say that is the wild card would be
develop this is a mixed use floating
Zone which gives you the
flexibility to probably do everything
they want as long as they present a
master plan up front and you accept
accept the the you accept it as a mixed
use floating Zone that would give you
the flexibility to mix both the
religious uses and potentially multiple
residences you know on site it's not
commercial per se but it's essentially
the equivalent of
commercial um and that would be one
potential but they would have to do the
homework to present you know a fully
developed master plan for how the whole
thing will look eventually and then that
makes your life easy because once you've
gone through that and you presented that
master plan which shows everything at
each step when you get ready to build
the next building then it is just uh
site plan approval from the commission
which is much faster than going through
a special permit so much more hassle up
front but once you got it then you know
whenever you're ready to build the next
building yeah you know you plug it in no
totally agree and actually that's why we
did the we did the site plan thinking
about the longer term larger building
and uh we uh we had an architectural
drawing of that building but the problem
was that the cost was right now we we
couldn't afford it that's why we were
debating we didn't want to present the
whole plan to you guys before we know
that we can can afford to build it and
have a definite timeline to it so that's
why we decided on this uh alternate plan
but it's it it would be good for the
commission to see what you're thinking
sure for the long-term plan because I
think it's a good plan yeah no
definitely yeah we have already um yeah
done some of the work and we have all
also brought in Engineers to look at
possible placement of a septic tank and
how the like parking would be set up and
all that is done already okay
interesting for us to yeah it would be
be good good to know what you're
planning not do it because yeah it
sounds like and we are going to if we we
do it finally to to the specifications
that we have we are thinking of it will
be a pretty nice development on that
property and uh the problem is it's
going cost us couple of million bucks so
but I think with the that's why we
wanted the the priest to be there
because these families want to come and
meet them talk to them get the children
to know them so if we are doing it long
distance it doesn't work very well we
tried that with zoom meetings and it's
it doesn't work very well that's
why any
idea you have any idea where the other
bigger building would go yeah we have
yeah we have already planned where the
there is on one side of the property
because we have the the property is
pretty large and there are some areas
with some I think like there are
waterways so we want to be careful
that's why we brought Engineers to look
at that and
recommend for yeah the Wetland make sure
the properties graded properly and all
that so I mean right right now we have
we have created these plans and they
with us but the only problem where I
mean we it created by one of our
architect where he recently moved here
but he don't have the the
certification so we are we are going to
give those plans to a licensed architect
here and and get him to redraw the uh
redraw the entire plan based on the
state rules and regulations and the the
zoning and everything but but but we
have a we have already prepared a one
but it's not
certain understand just to give us an
idea of what you're looking at be be
able to provide yeah we can we can
provide that while we are working on the
uh uh like with the license surveyor and
a uh but but we have we are working with
the license surveyor but we don't have
licensed architect to finally uh draw an
actual development
plan
yeah help me understand the temple today
is the temple today the statue of Buddha
with the the cover on top of it yeah
yeah that's the temple and then we are
using the tent for the uh and mostly
whenever we can we do outdoor functions
but if we want indoor we are using the
tent for those because we have as you
said 30 40 people at least coming there
for a small function for a bigal
function we will have 100 to 120
people it is in that will be the temple
in the end yes that that is the temple
that is
yeah
and if you got the tax
exempt status for being a house of
worship now yeah we have submitted all
the uh required documentation and it's
the process it's in the process and they
said probably it'll be next year for the
next tax year we don't have to pay the
taxes so we have yeah submitted all the
documentation because all all the
discussion is predicated on their being
actual Temple there I didn't know if
that
was I had something different in mind
when I thought of a
temple that no no no we that's why we
set it up originally as a nonprofit and
got the IRS to give us the tax exm
status and then we we collected all the
documentation and uh sub to the uh
City with
you're setting up a separate nonprofit
for this operation no it is already
existing nonprofit Conneticut Meditation
Center in so that's a that's
organization right so all the
contributions to that uh that current
Meditation Center is tax right but that
brings up a second point and that
is you're going through to get tax
exempt status essentially as religious
organization in town which I don't think
the town has any problem with we're
we're encouraging you to do that but you
haven't really filed the
applications for the zone so you still
need a permit
application to be at church I mean
correct me if I'm wrong but I don't
believe that's ever been that's where
we're we're headed is we've got to get
to right we've got to
establish by permit here at church and
we might be able to do all that one plan
and I think there's different ways as
Eric was saying this mixed use thing and
I hadn't thought about that I think it
would work just as long as we have a
temple and an accessory structure there
and you can have more than one accessory
structure I assuming Jim that you can
have as many of those as you need
okay sure
fible a lot
yeah I tried to make it clear that they
need I mean it was used as a residence
you could have continued to use it as a
residence but it was I mean basically
have changed the use we don't use the
term change of use but nonetheless yeah
a change of
use constitute requires a new permit
okay in this case so we can't approve
the house unless we have a permit for a
permit for the D what I'm
suggesting you get a permit life for
permit or something simple yeah this
larger building can come later yeah that
that what I want to see is is what what
you have there now a tent you know you
have various things yeah um and you know
you can establish parking um and I know
you've been working with a sanitarian
yeah and an engineer on a septic
system but I want to see that all come
together into an application and I tried
to tried to make that okay yeah
definitely yeah we um we can we can uh
that's why we were not totally sure how
to go about doing this so that's that's
a reason for this meeting that's why we
wanted to come in person so that we
understand the needs and then we'll
definitely do the documentation just so
you know I'd be happy to meet with you
and your engineer yeah um yeah I'd
rather meet with your engineer the
architect I think way see you establish
the use as soon as possible yeah yeah we
have yeah we have an engineer actually
one of our uh community members is the
city engineer for Manchester okay so uh
well yeah I know you have a lot of
resources so he's he's helping us and
also we have hired actual U engineer to
civil engineer to uh help us with the uh
with the plan right I have I have spoken
to him okay yeah yeah Andy right yeah
yeah okay and then so I you saw a
drawing of the proposed house yeah and
it didn't have probably as much detail
on that as we would like to see with
respect to the heating system and tie
into the septic tank and where the well
is and all all that kind of stuff but so
the application would probably need a
little more than what we've seen so far
as far as the actual house
making sure that it stays seated yeah
right and there's also essentially two
standards for manufactured home one is a
HUD standard um and one is a
manufactured home standard that conforms
to all the standard that for conforms to
the Connecticut building code okay as
far as I know are and I don't remember
what the state there was a state
something changed recently with the
state regulations but the town has
always
permitted manufactured homes which
conform to the Connecticut State
Building Code um plenty of them in town
yeah but we've never
permitted um homes built to the mobile
home or the HUD standard oh in our
zoning regulations so just be aware of
that yeah as you're looking at units
yeah that's why we told that it has to
be more than 22 ft long so that's why we
went with the three bedroom unit because
it's a bigger building and has little
bit more uh space as well so yeah that
that's 22 feet wide that's a that's a
state but you can actually build you
don't it doesn't need to be as big as
long as it's quote unquote a
manufactured house yeah um in fact you
can get get all the way down under 400
square ft and build it under the state
code uh for tiny houses which is an
addendum to the State Building Code
those you could probably buy what's
called an accessory dwelling unit and
plunk that on and that might be a for a
shorter term solution that saves you
money but you know I don't know your
priest whether you want to live in a 400
foot home that's between you and them
but you have you know you do have a
bunch of options with that don't think
that you have to build a 22 foot wide
structure what I'm been trying to stress
is that you can't have an accessory use
or an accessory structure without a
primary yeah you don't have a primary
use approved right
now is that is that clear yeah so
primary use means that we have for the P
Temple we have put
House
of yeah and that could be I me as far as
I'm concerned that can be the the T you
know yeah what you have yeah so I think
so yeah let us know what documents do
you need for the just to get the
approval for the temple with the current
facility so we'll start with that right
and then your well
aware yeah we can talk to Andy and get
set up that that perit first I mean I
don't see any reason to that your
architect has to be engaged in this
preliminary yeah we want everything cost
more and more money so yeah that's why
we first started with the engineer so
that we develop the site plan and also
we wanted to make sure that we
understand the needs for the like septic
T because right now the the septic
connections for that old building we are
not very sure of how how
I mean you're trying to plan there's a
lot going on yeah yeah we have to plan
for the future as I said right we don't
want to do one thing right now and to
find out later that oh this is not
enough we need to expand that so the
cost kind of adds up pretty quickly so
that's why we want to understand all the
requirements now before we you know put
money into
this and that's why you're heing yeah
that's yeah the last comment I have in
in our last gym when I went to the
assessor map today to look at this
property it looks like there's three
different lots that you own yeah y are
we dealing with just the one lot and
then it looks like the other two lots
recently we Consolidated all three into
one okay that was that was going to be
my question yeah I have documentation
okay and so that should be spelled out
on the site plan too that we've taken
the three different
partials yeah so that was the
recommendation from Andy when he came
and looked at the properties and don't
want to deal with these three separate
blocks let's let's consolidate that good
yeah so we'll we'll then we'll work on
that that permit first just to get the
permit to for the temple with the
current existing structures and then we
forward go forward with the again the
Second Step would be to apply for a
mixed use permit or or to get the waiver
to set up the residential building
so go ahead joh so um I don't know if
this was mentioned I I liked Eric's idea
of the mixed use but but in looking at
the the regulations for the business
district and um I know I mean church is
as allowed site plan use I think you
probably already talked about that
there's not a there there's not a
specific definition of what a church
is um and you know it so this is a this
is an interpretation by you know the Zeo
and maybe the commission itself but you
know churches you know religious
facilities can be fairly Broad and
expansive that in could include some
residential some community space
obviously think of you know think of a a
large Church
community um it it it encompasses a
great many you know Rel related uses
including residential including
community space including um assembly um
and and the other thing I would point
out is in Section 8 the the business
Zone in the site plan uses where it
includes churches there's also a clause
at the bottom of that list that says any
other uses that the commission
determines are substantially similar to
the other allowable site plan uses so
you know again I think we would need we
would need sort of that Master Plan and
and and kind of a narrative to show how
all of these varie uses you know the the
the the priest's residence some
community space the temple other
structures how that all works together
to support the the religious community I
think you know you could sort of lay
this out in a way that the commission
could understand that really the whole
property is functioning essentially as a
church or something similar enough that
it's it would fit under the current
Zone okay yeah so the that's exactly how
we are thinking about it too so because
we we want the public to gather and do
the religious things at the same
time uh then they are also involved in
teaching kids so we want the kids to
assemble there and so maybe have smaller
Gatherings so that they can learn the
language culture as well as some
meditation and then we can the other
advantage in PR pre living in the
property that there are lot of Demands
from the schools in the area to come and
do meditation programs for the school KY
but when they operate from New York they
can it's it's hard to do so during week
days they want people to go so that
that's why we are thinking about all
these things but the important thing for
tonight yeah is that the temple is the
statue with the cover over yeah that
that is the temple that exists today
yeah and we have to get perit for that a
permit for that yeah which allows us to
then go put the house there okay
and in further down the line you might
decide to have the temple to find is is
something
bigger we if you've got a temple today
you can go for with the house if you
don't have a temple today yeah no
house
definitely easy enough I it's very easy
to do very
good and look forward to seeing
it very good any any other questions for
us we can we can definitely work on the
documentation and then come and then
work with Jim and get the get Andy and
others to come talk to you and then I
didn't know the Shri Lankan Community
was growing the way it is but you
certainly been wonderful neighbors out
there at this point and
surprised how big the community is when
we when we did the larger events there
were lots of people and we were
ourselves surprised to see how how many
families there are I mean New York
always had large they have about
3500 family Sri Lankan families in New
York in the five barrows but uh yeah
Connecticut is growing pretty
path and I think Yukon has student swap
program or something like that with
Lankan universities so every year like
10 to 15 kids coming over now they have
30 to 40 graduate students there who are
doing their
phds so so it's it's growing pretty well
and pretty fast and they are they also
want to come during weekends and it's
all great yeah any other questions
before we uh end the discussion here I
think this all good news thank you very
much thank you for coming appreciate the
and everybody has been very supportive
so we really appreciate thank you thank
you very
much okay now we're going to shift back
to Old business and the first item up
John is the planet conservation
development okay um thank you ched uh
I'm going to
throw uh um the draft document on the
screen hopefully you'll be able to see
that shortly I'll try to zoom in a
little bit um so as requested
um a couple of days ago I I probably
probably yesterday it's only Tuesday um
I forwarded around to everyone a copy of
the working draft um and as you recall
last month um we sort of talked through
um complete Street
which again was sort of one of the five
uh guiding principles or the the the the
visioning statements specifically uh we
envision a safe and vibrant Andover that
connects the community through a network
of complete streets and enhances the
town Civic campus on both sides of Route
Six at its heart um and we had the had
the conversation and so I and so I took
those um suggestions that conversation
and attempted to craft it into something
that that that resembled a chapter of a
plan of conservation and development um
so I'll just very very briefly walk
through the way it was structured and
then um would like to get just a little
bit of feedback on on if this reads the
way that that um you would you would
like to see it and if it reflects the um
the goals that we we discussed and
concerns um so again I'll be I'll be
relatively brief hopefully people got a
chance to take a look at this um so we
we talk about complete streets as as a
concept um the history of Andover being
involved in complete streets and and
looking to increase safety um on
andover's road Network um we discussed
the the current conditions with state
roads which are which are you know
probably the most important um
connectors in and over Route 6 Route
26 um looking a little bit at uh traffic
counts and how everything's connected
talk a little bit about local roads um I
could beef that up a little bit more um
just just in terms of the the character
but you know they they local roads it's
a rural town it's it's fairly fairly
straightforward um talk a little bit
about the Hop River Trail and the town's
public
transportation um such as it
is and uh and then we go into some of
the philosophical underpinnings of this
chapter the vision zero um complete
streets taking the Safe Systems approach
and added some of the some of the
graphics and descriptions from um the
the PowerPoint presentation and some of
the materials that Eric has put together
over the years um and again focusing on
the The Safe Systems goals of changing
local policy that includes the needs of
people on foot bicycle and bus educating
residents on a series of um safe
behaviors making roads safer
um and and looking at some of the The
Proven safety counter measures which is
a term of art from federal High way um
and ensuring people of all ages have
more options to travel
safely then we sort of go through a
detail of the um improvements that have
been made following this this broad goal
that we're continuing um dealing with
some of the the The Pedestrian Crossings
um bike racks wayfinding signage and
that sort of thing um and then we go
into a little bit more uh deeper
Narrative of the specific um initiative
that that was um began began a couple of
years ago to establish a stronger
connection for um bicycles pedestrians
between the town hall campus the Civic
campus on School Street and the Hop
River Trail which is sort of the the
spine from uh the spine of of uh Andover
from a trail system or multimodal system
uh and the the two paths that we're
we're going to be pursuing essentially
concurrently so describe that um and
then we detail some of the concerns that
were raised um in the past and and we
talked quite a bit about at at our last
meeting um about you know connecting
people to the Trails um the concerns
with with Crossings of Route Six uh to
try to knit the town more closely
together um problems with with speed and
lack of awareness on local roads
particularly when it comes to
pedestrians and bicycles uh and
pedestrians did I spell that right yes
okay
um and then and then we basically take
it to the actual actions uh section and
we split up the recommended actions into
three large goals goal a promoting
traffic calming and encouraging lower
speed roads making investments in the
multi-use path and Trail
connections and then the third being
undertake uh Transportation Network
improvements to to improve safety
efficiency and convenience and each of
those goals has specific action items um
which we will then further um break down
in an implementation guide which will
happen sort of at the end of the process
in which each of these
recommendations will be given a priority
will be given a principal um entity to
act upon it um as well as any supporting
um detail so for instance painting
edgeline striping if you look at the the
first goal under or first action under
goal C um would certainly be the you
know public works department with the
assistance and guidance of the Town
manager um the Town Administrator and
you know it's a high priority or it's an
ongoing priority and so all of these
will sort of be broken down so that the
goals are more easily trackable as we go
into the future um so that in in in very
brief is basically the structure of you
know this chapter which again would be
one of six based on the we envision
statements
um and then you know we we continue to
add to these as we have our our sort of
in-depth conversations on each of the we
envision statement like we did about
complete streets last month um so that's
that's the the broad brush approach of
what we were we're looking for and and
you know we can we can quibble about
words specific details maybe later but I
would just sort of like some some
feedback on if this in terms of tone
length
detail appearance is sort of you know
vibing with with where you guys would
like the the plan to go and
I'll leave it there Mr chairman any
comments uh from the commission members
when I went and read through it I found
a couple different things that I wasn't
you know at the time when I read it this
morning you
know and it's think it's go down John
I'm sorry yeah did you did you say it
didn't sit well yeah keep going I'll
tell you when to stop
okay I think it had to do with what has
happened so far something Me Maybe here
on major ongoing task go
down oh right here the major on going
cast the
some about humans are
fallible oh okay uh I think that's in I
think that's in the Safe Systems
approach Eric correct me if I'm wrong
yeah that's a that's a straight tenant
from the Federal Highway yeah right here
right here humans are fallible after
all you don't think that's
true not an Handover I guess maybe
that's true of Colombia
humans are I think that's pretty
Universal I mean I think you just mean
that accidents are bound to happen at
some point right well it says everybody
makes
mistakes the goal of this is a
transportation Network where the
mistakes don't kill you or your
friend I Eric I understood the whole
thing it just that part of it didn't you
know
humans are fallible after all I don't
know how he could rewrite that yeah I
mean well it's it's it's parenthetical
and a little bit chatty there's no you
know we could we could take it out
entirely and the the sentence still has
its strength I think you know people
will neverly make mistakes period think
about it I don't know struck me badly
this
morning I know why here we go one was
through the woods down below there keep
going down through the woods that
something to do what what what has been
completed so far right slow down right
there right here the
townwood yeah I think I described the
the the the trail through the woods um
over yeah right
here on Town owned property
yeah which yeah I mean which would
describe sort of the red the the red or
pink path that we we we're looking at
here
the over Hill
Andale so no no mention of grandmother's
house how about through the town owned
property through yeah we could just say
through through through town owned
property right here
or the wooded it is wooded though right
yes I mean through wooded Town property
or I appreciate the close read That's I
and I you know it's it's never easy to
be edited but I appreciate the close
read maybe it was just too early in the
morning
Scott and that's and and let's you know
to be to be absolutely clear I you know
uh I can send out a word version I think
I sent people the pdf version um I'm I'm
happy to send people the word version
and you be you're welcome to use track
changes and and suggest some specific
editorial stuff that's that's perfectly
fine because humans are foundable after
all is of the government yeah that came
from the
government well that's one of the being
a rickover
disciple was a big guy on nuclear
submarines that certainly you know tried
to design everything with with that
Concept in
mind that's actually one of the primary
tenants of the safe Safe Systems
approach is just acknowledging the fact
that you know people make mistakes and
and we want them to be hurt less right
as opposed to the old philosophy of the
stupid will be punished right you
crashed it's your fault yeah yeah right
yeah yeah right
that the uh the thing that I struggled
with a little bit is you know when we
talk about lower speeds on the
roads we talked about lowering speed
limits and and every end over road is 25
miles an hour already
already I
uh I don't have a problem with I think
25 there's a couple of places where I go
less than 25 around the curves because
you can't see what's coming up but
pretty much if we had everybody going 25
I think we'd be a pretty safe town I had
a guy go wizard by me the other day on
late Road and he must have been doing 60
you know and uh that's that's the
problem you know
and but so I don't think we would gain
much by lowering speed limits but we do
need to lower the speed which is a
different
thing
but you
know are there people that think we
should be having speed limits less than
25 posted out
there State there was a group folks on
on Birch Birch Drive that wanted to
lower the speed limit below 25 and SOC
wouldn't allow it unless I mean
obviously there's a few roads that are
why don't when you get up into 40 and 50
everybody goes plus
10 you know but I don't think if we you
know we would reduce speed much by
lowering it down to 10 or 15 and all we
do is spend money on more signs but but
any that
was the the original question was how
does it look how's the length how's the
presentation all that I thought it was
great and if we could get every chapter
to look that nice U we'd be we'd be
doing good right that's what I thought
also
yeah so I will I will thank you um I
will and and you know in this chap this
chapter was
particularly easy because of all the
work that Eric has done over the years
um so I think the other ones are going
to start being a little bit more
challenging
um and and so what what we would propose
to do and I'll uh let me go back up to
the
beginning um
is looking at these the uh five Envision
statements again so we have the Envision
statement about uh quality of life um
housing conservation Economic
Development complete streets and and
climate change um so we have you know
essentially one one chapter roughly
drafted you know there's going to be
some tweaking um and now and I believe
um Jed correct me if I'm wrong I think
conservation um is probably going to be
discussed next month and maybe economic
development in January
um hopefully Y and uh I think
conservation is
probably might not be as easy as what
Eric gave you but I think it's going to
come in in very good shape yeah they I
mean they've been doing a lot of
thinking and a lot of planning yeah they
have yeah I'm not sure how much elain's
been able she's been pretty busy with
lots of stuff but we do have our uh leaz
on member here on on the commission now
with economic development with Patrick
and and so
uh I guess you guys are meetting
tomorrow night to talk about that yes we
are we've been investigating uh you
know trying to bring out the uh positive
benefits of our town and you know
ecotourism and looking into all that
those options and trying to support
those businesses as much as we can and
then you know we're brainstorming and
researching on some other options to
bolster that kind of thought process so
okay yep so I think you'll get probably
a uh something very similar to what you
got from Eric from conservation
hopefully we'll get that uh from
Economic Development too I think they've
got some different thoughts than they
did before and then uh it's going to be
the rest of these that uh sort of fall
to you John to uh craft up for us so
yeah so we'll we'll want to talk and
again if we have those two sort of
queued up we be to conservation next
month ideally and then maybe economic
development in January then we'll be
looking and and then ideally um what
we'll we'll do is sort of follow this
process so if we have the conversation
with conservation in December by the
January meeting hopefully I can get you
this sort of chapter for con
conservation then queue up Economic
Development February you'll have the
chapter on economic development and we
can have the conversation on the the
next thing so we um but that what what
that leaves is
um the discussions of uh sort of quality
of life housing and Civic investment in
uh climate change issues we should we
should start talking about if there are
groups or individuals that we want to
get their input um so for for instance
probably for the quality of life um One
Civic opportunities and quality of life
we may want to talk to
um tests from the new community and
Senior Center we may want to talk to
someone from the schools we may want to
talk to someone from Parks and wreck um
or and and and maybe get all of their
inputs you know um in one conversation
and then you know H housing we you know
I'm I'm open to suggestions on who we
want to talk to there um but we we we
need to have sort of queue up these
conversations and invite the right
stakeholders to the
table Yeah I think for housing you're
going to be uh talking to yourself using
the last affordable housing plan that we
came up with yeah and I think we'll
we'll probably use that as a as a basis
absolutely you know the town does have
two I believe two Representatives on the
Eastern Connecticut Housing
opportuni board
or start that again folks that own
senior housing oh I believe it's eastern
Connecticut Housing I there are a couple
of town reps on that I don't know I
don't know how they're appointed I don't
know anything about it okay yeah
other than that so yeah so I so I I
would say in the short term what I will
do is send around the word version um
maybe I'll maybe I'll just cut out the
the the the um complete Street section
so it's just like a three or four page
word version you guys can if anyone
wants to mark it up uh and we can we can
incorporate those changes and then we'll
we'll we'll plan to queue up our our
conservation conversation in December
yeah because once you know once we get
to the end I think it's like four takes
four months from the time we have a
finished document till we do the public
hearing and we uh you know I think
there's a brief to the board of
selectman or something in there that we
have to do there's a bunch of Hoops we
have to jump through before it's you
know done
and done right we're we're probably
looking we're probably looking to to the
fall um so I'm sorry was that Leanne
that was jumping
in some someone on the phone was talking
heard's voice
also thought it was you Leanne but I see
you're muted there uh any any other
questions or comments on on PCD at this
point okay I'm am I unmuted now yes yep
go
ahead okay um should we be changing
School Street to school
road if yeah we should be changing it to
whatever it is what is
it school Road School Road okay yeah
I'll I'm sorry I'll I'll I'll I'll
correct that yeah okay thank
you um what is a speed
table oh so it's um it's a a a wide um
less less uh dramatic speed bump so it's
it you can think of it also sort of as
like a raised crosswalk where or you
know they can be anywhere from I don't
know 10 to 20
ft wide um and it's you know you're sort
of gradual it's just it's a little bit
of a plateau um that that functions as a
speed bump essentially it slows traffic
but it also sort of highlights a
pedestrian
Crossing it's a it's just a different
Road
treatment Wayne you had a comment this
is simply
procedural um the
documents and I'll defer I'll defer to
you J um but personally I'd like to see
the word draft on these documents and a
revision date if that's yeah yes point I
can put I can put a I can put a
watermark on
it and it's easy to get mixed up on
what's the latest draft if you don't
have the
revision draft look like y okay go good
point John the only other comment I had
when I read through this again was that
that somebody that's not intimately
familiar with the town that doesn't know
where all these roads are yeah you
really need a map in there which
shows you know the rail trail and then
all the potential connections to it so
you can kind of see this as a coherent
ho as to where you know where the plan
suggests
improvements yeah uh I think that's
absolutely correct I think we're gonna
yeah there's there's much more I think I
included obviously some graphics we're
going to want to add more and definitely
Maps absolutely
yeah okay anything else John um I think
that's all I have right now okay thank
you thank you move on to Old business
item uh proposed regulations so as to
expand allowable uses on working
farms
and I'm kind of looking for some help
from the commission here on the way
ahead the uh um we heard uh you know
Ryan Fitch stopped by and you know told
us but I guess he's he's looking for
help to uh do things up you know through
and including
concerts
um and John drafted a regulation that
that would have allowed
that um you I I struggle a little bit
with when a guy has
a Christmas tree
farm should he have an expectation that
we're going to allow him to do concerts
there
and I mean might be might be a good idea
might not be but my thought is that um
maybe that's not what we're looking for
you know in in Johnny had a a uh a write
up on nonagricultural related kind of
things which were uh you know all kinds
of different things from weddings to uh
concerts and all that and
uh and then I looked at John sent me and
I think I sent it out to everybody the
Columbia ranks and and I looked kind of
you thinking that uh a Christmas tree
farm probably
I can see doing events at a winery more
than I can at a Christmas tree farm and
the regulations that Colombia had for
the winery did not allow Amplified Sound
Outside
um I think they only allowed it a couple
times a
year and
uh you know we we would need to draft
you know kind of specific to uh the the
tree farm
but but I don't know that we need to let
him do everything that he was thinking
of doing you know I know we had this uh
scary trailer thing set up for Halloween
and again not charging but you know is
that uh you for it was a support of
Charity and I don't know if that
was what we expect to be at a Christmas
tree farm or not now he came in and and
said uh I'm here to change the use of
the property from a farm to a wedding
venue or something then maybe for for a
concert venue then you know that would
be a different thing not allowed by our
procedures but I'm trying to figure out
way to the way to go and I like the
Columbia approach and I asked John well
how I know the town of Columbia has
concerts at their little gazebo and and
down at the lake how does that jive and
in
what did you say the answer to that
question was John I didn't they well
yeah col Columbia doesn't have uh sort
of a separate zoning regulation or or
provision
for sort of community community events
yeah um it's it's sort of just
done um but yeah the the the town has
well I mean I think I shared with you
the W the specific wedding venue
regulation that was that was adopted and
the first the first one was approved
um actually formally officially two
weeks ago because the lawsuit was Dr was
Was Defeated um so yeah so but but it's
it's not
really about active agriculture you know
about special events at on active
agriculture in Columbia it's really
about a standalone single purpose event
venue so yeah the town the the the
regulations that I developed that sort
of in coordination with with Mr Fitch
were sort of a modified version of
something that was adopted not that long
ago in East
Hampton okay Patrick you had a comment
yeah so we we briefly uh touched on this
at our last Economic Development
commission meeting and we're we've all
done some research and uh brought up the
propose the the draft proposal for this
new mixed use but it falls under I I
spoke misspoke earlier as ecotourism
it's it falls under AGR tourism and
we we discussed it briefly because I had
I had I had the draft with me but then
the other members forwarded that draft
so we're going to be talking about that
tomorrow at our meeting okay and we're
we're we're looking to be in line but
our own thing and and over so you know
we have been very permissive on a lot of
things in our town and due to the
smaller scope of a lot of our stuff and
events you know it's it's uh it's a
little bit different in in our town and
and uh my my personal opinion is that
you know we've been trying to promote
and and uh support our local businesses
that are you know a lot of blue collar
and a lot of you know smaller
Enterprises and homebased businesses so
this does fall under the Agri tourism
also like so I think that the economic
development commission will be giving
our input at the next plan uh at the
next Planning and Zoning meeting we'll
have something ready for you for okay
for evaluation we have you know we we
did like what John prepared but you know
we want to see what else we can do with
it
and make recommendations I don't have
official recommendation I got you that
sounds good that would be helpful yeah
we want to support as much local
business as possible without being well
it's so yeah the other the other thing
that I would add on that is you know
John put in there that uh consistent
with the state noise regulations and and
I found that very difficult for me to
understand what was going on you know
how how I would tell but I do think it's
similar to our light regulations that
allow require a very small amount of
light to trespass onto the neighbor
property it seemed I think that if we
were to go out and investigate what the
uh the noise levels are coming off his
property at that concert I think he
going to be well in excess of what the
state allows on that
the other thing that I took away from
because I was I was always told that
measuring the sound
levels is uh difficult and tricky and
all that kind of stuff and it says in
the state thing that the way to do it is
there's an app for your iPhone it's free
you just put it in there and it'll give
you the sound pressure level I said wow
how cool is that
but but I don't know I think I think Mr
would be surprised at how
low his concerts would have to
be to uh to do that
um and I know my own comment when we
have a good rock and roll band over here
at the Gazebo is it's not loud enough
now I know why because the you know
because we don't want to be annoying all
the neighbors we get we get the band
playing out at the beach maybe twice a
year they have you know one in the
spring one in the fall and uh I don't
think anybody complains about that but I
think the uh the issue with at least the
one neighbor was the
uh the events keep expanding in scope
and frequency and uh they just didn't
know when when that was going to stop so
um I look forward to hearing from EDC
next month on on uh what that is but but
like the lights over at the soccer field
you I I'll tend to be kind of protective
of uh of the neighbors that uh you the
comment I got was we're living next to a
Christmas tree farm you
know we didn't expect that so I think we
could do both I I had some thoughts and
just thinking about in general Farms
Agriculture and what can we do in town
and farms are
struggling they you know sometimes there
one crop doesn't make it or something
has problem I feel like we should really
encourage people to find another way to
get some income and really look into
these kinds of other options and of
course we have to deal with noise maybe
light but I think that it definitely is
a benefit to encourage them to find
other ways of making some
money so I know that the economic
development commission will probably be
working on that idea but I just
well I I noticed there was one section
in in the Columbia RS that talked about
you no more than six noisy events a year
and uh something like that and but my
heart tells me that you we ought to be
having something similar what we expect
the town to do is the farm to do with
respect to concerts now we can't tell
the farm not to have a concert and then
the town's out putting on concerts we
got to we got to be consistent across
cross a little better but I will wait
with the baited breath you'll
uh till next month when uh maybe we get
something feedback on
that any
other any other uh thoughts on uh the
working farm stuff yeah J I had a
question um refresh my memory does the
noise ordinance change um with the time
of day or is it the same you know at
5:00 p.m. as it is at 9:00 p.m. because
I was thinking maybe we limit um Mr Fish
having the events you know maybe he has
to end by eight instead of 10 or you
know I don't know if that would help the
neighbor
situation um well uh yeah
he I
think in John you'll probably you know
probably know this better than me my
guess is that there was something
different in the time day I can't put my
finger on it right off the bat but you
could be noisier during the day than you
could in the
evening um but I you go to a concert in
moan sun and your ears are hurting when
you get done with that thing um no I
understand that and and they even have a
curfew of 11 o'clock or something but I
was just thinking that if we wanted to
work with him and let him make some
other income during the non Christmas
tree selling time of year you know could
he be doing some things during the day
or early evening I think yes I think you
know there's that that's a very good
approach I I like that
um you know and I think most of the Town
concerts are done by they normally 6:30
to 8:30 or something like that I think
that's a reasonable time I know on the
draft it talked about going to 10:00 I
think that's certainly a little past my
bedtime um but but we can we can get
there but I am looking for something
that would be you know good guidance for
the lake good guidance for the town and
good guidance for the farm and
uh try to make everybody happy and
that's always a toall order but there
you
go I don't think I'd want to live next
to a wedding venue oh I wouldn't no but
I do I am pretty close to the beach and
uh you know there's twice a year there's
a band playing out there and and it's
not huge they don't have those great big
mono speakers they have the same kind of
speakers as we use down here at the
Gazebo and and it's not I don't find it
annoying as far as I know we've never
had any complaints about any of that
going on but but anyhow
um I'd like it to work same rules for
everybody who wants to have a concert
kind of my
thought okay um that completes the old
business the next thing on the new
business is to set the regular meting
dates for
2025 and I sent the I sent those out
everybody um for for next year's
calendar it worked uh very
straightforward the third Tuesday of the
month
uh there was nothing that uh stuck out
like it was prohibitive of that
so I would like to make a motion to uh
adopt the proposed 2025 PCC meeting
schedule second
okay lean we'll get you a second e on
that one any discussion on uh on those
dates at
all okay
um hearing none I'll call for a vote an
i Scott I
lean hi Patrick I and I vote I as well
that motion passes 500
next up is the discussion on the Bunker
Hill Bridge
here okay so uh Jim brought it to my
attention that an 8-24
statutory uh referral was required for
the bridge uh I didn't believe it was
but then when I went back and read
through the regulations I said yep he's
right so I submitted one to the town
I think uh replacing that bridge is
consistent with the plan of conservation
and development because certainly the
plan of conservation and development uh
envisions people being able to drive
their cars to a significant fraction of
town so um I would urge you
to uh vote positively for the uh the
proposal to replace the bridge
now why' you change your
mind because I read the actual statute
oh okay
wow
um I didn't know if if I think it's an
improved Bridge from what I read where
it allows more flow to go through it
instead of uh you know uh the uh
individual pipes you've got going
through it now it's got the big open
space to allow much more there but uh
trees won't get hung
up trees might uh branches won't yeah
but everything that goes through and Get
on Up Now
super any questions for Eric on on the
bridge
replacement I have a question yeah do we
have any idea how how long that bridge
will be
closed well look a little luck just over
eight months
okay than starting sometime between
February and
April uh depending on exact
time I think they did that big one in
Columbia in like six
months y was very
quick y
Eric
yes um is are is there any possibility
of the bridge being
open even if it is closed back up again
um you know often on at any point during
this
process
so once they start putting the Coffer
dams
in um and they start putting micr
pilings in no it would be
closed period from that point because
they have to tear out the roadway to do
that um the initial thing that's
supposed to be starting February 15th is
relocation of the
utilities um and
that may take a temporary several day
road closure but then the road would be
opened back up until the bridge
construction firm was in setting the
initial Coffer dams um but once that
starts and the micropiling start going
in it's anticipated that the bridge will
be uh will be
closed and about how long a time frame
is that from what you from your
understanding right
now um
the uh contract calls for the bridge to
be reopened basically in about eight
months after it starts so a single
construction
season okay
thanks any other questions or comments
on the
bridge hearing none oh um so in a minute
I'll make a motion to uh that I write
and submit
824 positive of referral on that the uh
somewhere along the line in the 824
world we had made an 824 referral
recommending the uh
multi-purpose path along Route
316 and the scope of the project changed
to
have a path through the
woods and so we haven't
we haven't done an 824 referral on that
either and uh that does take a little
bit of town money where the bridge
doesn't and it is certainly in a down
Improvement and so I think it needs one
it just got overlooked because we didn't
know that was coming and so I would like
uh you know my intention would be to
write a combined letter for two 824
referrals one would for the bridge and
the other would be in support of the
trail through the woods if that's what
we choose to
recommend and
so um J can I just clarify that there
are two completely separate projects
yeah the first is a multiuse path that
runs down Route 316 that's in design
phase right now um the construction
funding for that is already secured
what's not secured is enough money to
finish the design so that's a me and
board of Finance uh uh discussion later
this year the trail the potential
Improvement of taking the existing Percy
cook Trail and making that a more
functional multi-use pathway um that
will be in design sometime this fall or
this winter but as a separate Grant
funded project with a different granting
agency so they are two completely
different projects y but we didn't
recognize the trail through the woods
when we started out it was right
something you know I thought we were
ahead of uh well we're still
ahead on the 8 24s and all of a sudden
it dawned on me that we hadn't acted on
that so
um any any
yeah well I guess I'll make a motion and
then we can have discussion if we need
to question I have is that since there's
no real design for
that do you want to do the 824 now or
wait to till you have a final design do
an 824 prior to funding funding there's
no funding
yet okay that's
yeah I thought we were Further Along on
that one than the 316 path but uh no
just the opposite because uh I saw a a
drawing showing where the path was going
to be I thought that was the design okay
um well that makes it easy then I will
go back and make a motion to approve 824
referral for the uh Bridge replacement
on Bunker Hill
Road okay thank you Scott
any other
discussion hearing none call for vote an
hi Scott hi
lean um I'm going to
obstain okay make my math
hard uh Patrick I and I vote I as well
motion passes 401 with Leanne abstaining
next up is discussion action response to
request for comment on proposed FEA map
updates I was going to uh point to Jim
on that particular issue but he tells me
Wayne you and Joe went through uh
through the new updated
Maps yeah um and looking at what was
presented here it doesn't look like um
the FEMA update is going to affect
Andover is the
uh outline of the affected area runs
right along the Andover he Border Town
Line and it affects the
um what's the water shed did you or Joe
gotten the draft FEMA map did you seen
the
fat okay haven't seen the actual map
that would be my comment is if they want
comments on the map they make it easier
to find because I've tried to get there
and have been unable
to and uh I thought Jo me that he had
gone on the website and and um sent an
email and expected to a response um that
was very recently yesterday Y no I I got
you
so so I know the comments are due I
think it says in that presentation
December 3D and
uh I'll I'll reach out to Joe to find
out if he actually
uh did you try call Darcy you said you
were going to call her and I didn't okay
please do and uh it would be nice
to see the map I don't think there's any
changes to it but I would hate to be
caught by surprise in uh and then you
know the feedback is be sure make it I
know they don't want these new maps
getting out to the public but boy
they're sure making it hard to get
there well nobody can download the thing
it's certainly not getting out of the
public j i I got you they have solved
that they've got that problem fixed so
anyhow Jim did you have anything else on
the FEMA Map update you want to share
with us no okay I'd like to know more
about it but I I'm yeah working on it
okay
got it
um next item up is approval of minutes
from the October 15 2024
meeting and I'll make a motion well are
there any comments on the meeting
minutes I have one I I thought you were
going to make a motion first and then
well and then so
that probably is how it should go but
then I have to uh amend the motion and
all that stuff and so we're going to get
the comments out here and I'll make a
motion to approve it as amended I just
want to suggest that public comment
number 11 there um Katherine Hutchinson
comment in
agreeance um that the zoning agent be
present I just thought maybe it should
say something like noted sheo was in
agreed I initially thought that when I
uh read through that too and I looked up
that word and it actually is really a
valid word that means just what you
think it should mean so well done Marina
yeah I I tracked that then yeah that was
gonna be bi cave going through there
what kind of word is this that I looked
it up and sure enough it's a real
word I should have done that didn't come
up on spell check so I was like
y any other comments on the minutes
they very
good I'll make a motion to uh approve
the minutes as
presented second thank you an any other
discussion call for a vote
an Scott
Leanne I Patrick I I vote I as well
motion passes five years
any correspondence gy did receive a
notification from thetic exciting
Council that that a generator will be
installed at or is proposed for the
rotten Gun Club to to augment the the
telecommunication Tower um any
improvements the sighting of towers and
improvements go through the sighting
councel
um and and they do allow towns to
comment
so that's the so the front page story on
the River East last week was about the
controversial cell power in marbor
marbor no that was on Town property okay
that's so I think that was the
controversy I mean the town obviously
has the ability to to agree to a lead or
not on a particular piece
ofer figure out exactly what the
controversy was but I thought the title
was catchy so I I did have a
conversation with David Porter over that
because I was a little curious David
Porter's their uh Town
Administrator and basically they've had
a problem with emergency communications
for some time and their fire department
wanted to put up a tower on Town
property so they could have better
emergency communications because they
had a bunch of dead spots in a
particular area and then uh
um the Town Administrator basically said
well if we're going to go out to RFP on
this why not do something where we can
make a little money on it so they
contacted one of the cell power
companies because it corresponds to a
dead spot in malor where they have pure
coverage uh they got a bunch of
proposals and then everybody came out of
the woodwork um stating this is going to
you know uh everything from uh the RF
signal is going to you know scramble my
brain to it's going to fall down and
Crush my car to you know the usual
Litany of things that you get um and
there were some other you know obviously
cell Powers caused visual disturbance
you know that been some people plus it's
in a residential Zone plus it's in a
residential Zone But ultimately the
board of Selectmen decided it was in
their best interest to sign the contract
and get the ball roll it still does have
to go to the Connecticut San Council
even though it's on Town property so
people have another uh point of
objection um so that everybody knows
there are two sell powers in Andover um
there's the one at the Sportsman's Club
there's also another
one oh is that on Bunker Hill it's on
Bunker Hill but I don't know whose
property that's on was lean price I
don't know whether
still I do get if you want them every
month or every other month I do get
randomly packets every time somebody
takes one particular uh dish or antenna
off one of the towers and puts another
one they submit this giant packet um to
be perfectly honest 90% of them I pitch
them straight in the bin I Look to make
sure they're not actually placing a
tower and that they're just replacing an
individual antenna off the tower and
ignore if you want as a commission to
get all those I'm happy to pass them on
um I'm certainly not willing to read
through all of them no I think we're
okay but thanks for reaching out to uh
Marboro getting the story there it
didn't I don't know maybe I got tired of
reading halfway through that article and
wasn't getting anywhere but I didn't
come away with that so we there is a
cell tower and a sportson club and
they're doing what now they're getting a
different one or expand no they're just
adding a backup generator oh generator
yeah
okay okay uh moving on to administrative
reports in the wetlands water course uh
the big uh item at the last meeting
which I was not present for I was out of
town was uh about the bridge and Eric's
briefed us on that um
I did note that one of the uh approvals
that Joe granted was for uh somebody
Paving their driveway and
uh this was uh you know
300 and something Lake Road and uh once
again my concern is that you and I
haven't reached out to Joe to
specifically ask him but
I'm pretty sure we probably didn't do a
nutrient allocation worksheet for all
the new impervious surface and so we're
missing we continue to miss those
opportunities to uh how did that
happen I don't have any good answer for
that
Scott you pretty clear yeah yeah
so there is a type of a pavement they
can put down that allows the water to go
through right it is yeah but they
probably didn't use that no it's said
you just plain old ass and
not how long was it it it was not as big
as the one on Lakeside Drive where they
they paved the whole front uh of the
House of the house yeah it goes from one
property line to the other property line
that's what their property yep
so so we we I I'll we are trying to sh
that with Wayne that would be an area
that would be nice if we would improve
on is is the
uh the getting of those nutrient
allocation worksheets every chance we
can to help keep the lake in as good a
shape as we maybe we need a banner or
something in that
office cast zoning change and Outlaw
asphalt driveway
we are the building office is working to
improve the
driveway doesn't that spark
somebody's well it's you know
and and it's more than just driveways
you know there's a couple of houses that
got totally rehabbed and uh that would
spark a nutrian allocation worksheet as
well and I don't think we got those but
so there's an area where we can do a
little better
in remember that
okay
yeah some sort of workflow to ensure
that Z zoning yeah it is and it uh in
key to uh key to that process is uh a
good relationship with the building
official
Jim you're you're up for administrative
reports thank you General slowdown in in
permit applications uh seasonal just
probably just as well because we we've
uh had early voting in the office and
it's been little much it's passed CBA
met in October held two public hearings
one on the J's property 517 Route Six
applicant requested relief from the
requirement to to basically Lo and see
the Disturbed area that was
denied second application um for relief
from building setbacks to allow
construction of accessory apartment at
for Sunset Lane was
improved um single family house built on
on the two subdivis two lot subdivision
at the end of Pine rdge Drive is nearly
complete and I anticipate the owner will
be SE seeo soon
so Sunset Lane
so Sunset and
that's in the lake zone right so you
allowed them accessory
dwelling huh accessory structure okay
all right yeah you did did I'm sorry I
was going to say because that trips a
different set of Regulation
y okay so U they are they the owner back
to plan rdge the owner will have to
regrade to pull Material off the Post
Farm um and I will in all probability
have to have him post a n bond to ensure
planting in the spring seeding in the
spring now would it be a good idea to
not disturb that property till spring
when you can seat
it moment it probably yeah so back to
the enforcement letter that you sent him
it tells him requires him to submit a
written plan
and he he did for a portion of the work
but he didn't address that post forun I
I would like to see a written plan that
shows when and what he's going to do
just because we've had a hard time
working with him to uh remedy the
situation there I can do
that um continuing to work with Ben
Franklin on a safe plan not exactly him
but the owners of Ben Franklin um to
address changes that they've done to the
site I got a complaint regarding debris
at 64 Longville
Road um in the matter of his result
quite honestly it was resolved on its
own um anybody who drives by that house
it's really I mean it's been a mess for
a long time looks great I did a great
job um Pur complaints regarding trees
but I I did go out and take a look at
them and I didn't think they met the the
town's white
ordinance the long vacant property 243
changed hands a while back new owner
took the roof off um basically Lev the
violation and he's working on getting a
survey to to move forward with the the
total rehab of the structure and what
road was that you said 243 Long Hill
Long Hill okay Stone House just the
walls right now
yeah um just just a point of Interest
there's three permits for new homes that
are in our system um they've been in
there for a while they're not moving
forward very quickly but L they're there
um folks initiated a permit and then
Chang design whatever
um finally I've just been working with
Wayne as my replacement and I think
it'll be a good fit and town and
commission will be well
served I got going back to the uh Ben
Franklin uh so what did you say about
Ben Franklin did you you told them to
stop what they were doing until they
come up with a plan okay and they seem
to have done that now are they
completely on their property they seem
to think so because that looks awfully
close
to State Property the state prop
yeah and unless they're going to end up
putting in a retaining wall how do they
prevent I mean right now they just cut
into a bank and left
it they do are proposing a retaining
wall I mean
they I mean I forgot what you know think
they're required to adhere to a would
Repose two one whatever it is the r but
they're they're proposing a retain W
they just hav't they sto out they're
working with an engineer supposedly I
think they may be running up against a
problem with lot
coverage
yeah that would make sense I suggest the
should beat that with impervious
pavement or
gravel
or acquiring a portion of the
fish
prop which is probably not a realistic
but
I don't know the whole thing's for
sale he probably doesn't need all it
yeah okay very good and I don't know the
particulars I don't know how much of
that property is is in blood Zone I
don't think where he would expand yeah
where he would
buy he pretty much cut himself when he
divided that
property didn't leg the business has
grown a lot over the years last 20
years it's changed
it was a a plumbing and heating company
now it's you know they now do a lot of
sort of SE work with it on treen and
such and then seg work but they have
heavy equipment down there small heavy
equip any other questions for
Jim okay John you're
up um so you know obviously we spent
some time right writing the the complete
streets chapter um the only other thing
I would note about uh activity this
month was worked uh fairly extensively
with Tess grous the new um community and
Senior Center Director on a um
programming survey uh now that the the
center is up and running they they want
to figure out what kind of programs and
and events and activities and and
services and classes um should be held
there so we worked up a um survey I
drafted it on Survey Monkey as well as
um hard copies um so I Eric you can tell
me if that distribution has started or
the publ publicity of that has started
but hopefully everyone will um fill out
the uh online online survey about um
activities in the in the community and
Senior
Center can have a paper copy for those
seniors there there are so the seniors
can stuff The Ballot Box like they did
with the uh with the PCD survey
okay very good anything else John but we
didn't ask him about roundabouts for the
community that's well it's uh you know
some some eagle-eyed seniors may see
that slipped into the complete Street
section and we'll we'll deal with that
later very
good next up is commission discussion in
miscellaneous any uh commission members
got anything they want to discuss
tonight
yeah Patrick yeah just a like
afterthought I um there was some
discussion on supporting U some more
senior housing and seeing seeing if we
can get Town support for more of the
affordable housing and that there was uh
there was
some there was some talk about how other
towns and bigger cities you know um
actually help fund those programs but um
there there does seem to be some
interest um and uh developers that that
want to come to our town and and do
those kinds of building for us so mean
not for the town but they're willing to
come to our town and there's some
business interests in that so I just
wanted to throw it out there just let
everybody know that in the past it's
been it seemed like oh nobody wants to
build in our town but there there seems
to be renewed interest right now so
thought bring that up yep I bet John
would like to know who those developers
are um it's it's still all you know
you know okay y development I guess
talking about it so super that's good
news
yep anybody
else public
comment I see Katherine Hutchinson is
with us
tonight yes I am um I have no comment
thank you
okay thank you for
attending is there anybody else from the
public here I uh am limited with the
number of names across the top I can't
see how many total attendees we got but
uh if there's anybody else from the
public you got something to say now's a
good time let me know who you
are nope I guess that's that next
meeting is going to be on December 17th
it will be Zoom only
we'll go to zoom for over the
winter and
uh other than that I thank everybody for
showing up tonight thank you Ann for uh
getting the thing running for us and uh
and arranging the room and
uh arena for a new standard of
Excellence on those uh
minutes and hopping out with that new
word to train us TR us up on and uh
everybody have a great Thanksgiving
thank you you too thanks j y good night
everybody